INTERCOPRIS(1)                         0.9-696-gee856c8-dirty                        INTERCOPRIS(1)

NAME
       intercopris - an interactive command interpreter

SYNOPSIS
       intercopris [options] [printer device or output file]

DESCRIPTION
       Intercopris  is a tool that provides a readline-based command line interpreter with the same
       parsing mechanism as in COPRIS’ printer feature files and custom variables.

       It is intended to be used for experimenting with printers by  providing  a  straight-forward
       interface between human-readable numbers and raw data, understood by printers.

       Intercopris  gives  you  a command prompt, similar to that of a shell.  It understands three
       different types of data:

       • numerical values in hexadecimal (0xNN), decimal (NN) or octal  (0NN)  notation,  separated
         with whitespace

       • plain text, prefixed with ‘t’

       • various built-in commands (e.g. dump, hex, last etc.), listed when starting the program

       After completing a line and pressing return, Intercopris will parse the entered data.  If it
       is  a  built-in  command, it will toggle its internal state or echo out any possible result.
       If commands are entered, Copris will process them using the supplied  printer  feature  file
       (which must be specified with -f FILE) and send them to the output.

       Intercopris  supports  saving  and  reloading command history.  To use it, you must create a
       file whose filename is told to you by the output of intercopris -h.

OPTIONS
       -f FILE
              Read commands from printer feature FILE.

       -h     Show a short option summary and expected location of the history file.

       -n     Do not use the history file.

       Last argument should be the output character device or file path.  If omitted, text will  be
       echoed to the terminal.

DEVELOPMENT
       Intercopris is a part of COPRIS, a converting printer server.

       Its development repository resides at ⟨https://github.com/bertronika/copris⟩.

SEE ALSO
       copris(1), readline(3)

                                             2024-08-13                              INTERCOPRIS(1)
